So we want to fade this alert in and out,
how does this work?
Let's start with fade-enter
.
remember this is the css class which is only attached for one frame at the beginning,
so here we should set our initial state
we want to have
Now since we want to fade it in, it should initially be transparent,
therefore here, I will set the opacity to zero
and that is all,
I'm not setting up any transition here or something like this because keep in mind, this class will
immediately be removed after one frame,
so if I would set up a transition here, that wouldn't work.
The place to set up the transition is here, the fade-enter-active class, here
I want to transition my opacity,
you could also transition all if you wanted but we only want to transition the opacity so this is fine
and I want to transition over one second let's say,
pick any time frame you want to pick.
Now this will animate it,
now I'm not setting opacity one here and that is important,
opacity one is the default anyways because keep in mind, opacity zero here will be removed after
one frame
so we don't need to override it, it by default is fully opaque.
So we do have, we don't have to specify one here
and indeed if we were to set the opacity to one here, the thing that would happen is that we would instantly
override our initial state of zero which yes was removed but it was there when we added this transition
opacity thing here because that gets added right before this gets removed.
So we would remove this or override this immediately to one,
therefore we wouldn't see any fading because the opacity would always be one,
so it's important to not set it here, only set up the transition here.
Well and for leaving, here we could set opacity to one though that is the default already,
so I'm going to comment it out,
we don't need to set it. For fade-leave-active though, we again should set up the transition
and now here it is important that we also set up the opacity of 0,
remember the default already is 1
so by setting up both the transition and the opacity of zero, we tell it yes, please animate whenever the
opacity changes,
oh and look, here it changes to 0,
this is how we can control this.
And now with that set up and the name being added here,
hence making sure that fade-enter and so on be unattached by vuejs, vuejs is now able to sniff
these css classes, finds out that the transition length is one second,
we don't have animation so it uses transition, with animation of course I'm referring to the css
animation property which would be an alternative to transitioning here and it does the same for the
leaving, hence it knows how to, how long it should attach these
css classes. Well and with that,
let's see,
let's have a look at the running application,
make sure your development server is running and there we need to reload this and now you see, it fades in and it
fades out.
And now we already set up our first animation for a single element
but how cool is that?
Now in a next video, let's have a look at how this would work if we wouldn't use the transition property
here but instead, css animations which is the alternative to transitioning single properties.